---
title: Drone Image Analysis from field data using a Micasense Multispectral sensor
tags:
  - Annotation
  - En
---

# Before flying: Planning!

You can agree that capturing images with a drone is a fun activity! When we want to capture images from multiple flights and use it for research, is important that we follow some good standards. Here, we want to share how we performed our research in the summer of 2023. We used a DJI Matrice 200 v2 equipped with a Micasense Altum! 

We performed our flights over a winter wheat trial. As our drone is not equipped with RTK, we first put ground control points in the field and surveyed them using a Multi-band RTK GNSS receiver. According to MS [Frank Dougher](https://landresources.montana.edu/directory/faculty/2324972/frank-dougher) helped us to survey the points at the field.


## Understanding your sensor

Micasense multispectral sensors are commercialized by [AgEagle](https://ageagle.com/solutions/micasense-series-multispectral-cameras/) and have been used for agricultural applications. We have experience using three sensors in our lab - RedEdge-3, Altum and RedEdge-P. They differ in the resolution of their cameras, but the three sensors have five bands in common: Blue, Red, Green, Near Infrared and RedEdge. Altum has an extra thermal sensor, while RedEdge-P has a panchromatic camera.




# FlightCheck

# Stitching using Open Drone Map

When stitching images using Open Drone Map (ODM), we have been using the following a command for images captured by Micasense sensors (RedEdge 3, RedEdge P and Altum) that includes radiometric calibration. ODM has two calibration `camera` or `camera+sun`, and the second still experimental by the time of this document. We then decided to use only `camera`.

# Drone Image Analysis Pipeline

